Sleeping Beauty
 Once upon a time there lived a king and queen who for many
 years were very sad because they had no child. At last a little
 daughter was born to them, and the king was so happy that he
 planned a great feast in the palace, to which he would invite all
 of his friends and relatives.  
Now in his country there were thirteen fairies. Of course the king
 wished to invite all of the fairies to the feast too, so that each
 might look kindly upon his child, and perhaps give the baby a
 special fairy gift. 
But as the king had only twelve gold plates for the fairies to eat
 from, it was decided that one fairy had to be left out. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 5
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Page 6
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
The feast was held, and what a wonderful celebration it was. As
 it drew to an end, the fairies came forward to give the child their
 special gifts. 
One said to the child, “I give you the gift of virtue, so that you
 may be good.” Another said, “I give you the gift of wisdom, so
 that you may be wise.”  A third fairy gave the child the gift of
 beauty. A fourth gave her riches. 
And on it went, with each fairy giving everything in the world
 that one could wish for .
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 7
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Page 8
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Eleven of the fairies had given their gifts, and the twelfth was
 just about to speak when suddenly, in came the thirteenth fairy—
 the one who had been left out. 
She was very angry, and she cried out in a loud voice, “When the
 princess is ffteen years of age, she shall prick herself with a
 spindle and die!” 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 9
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 10
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Without another word, the angry fairy left the hall. Everyone
 was  terrifed at what she had said. 
Then the twelfth fairy came forward and said, “I cannot undo the
 evil spell,  but I can  soften it. Here, then, is my gift to the child.
 The princess shall not die, but she will fall into a deep sleep for a
 hundred years.” 
The king was determined to protect his child. “Surely,” he said,
 “my daughter cannot prick herself with a spindle if she never
 sees one.” So he gave an order that every spindle in the kingdom
 should be burned. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 11
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 12
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
The princess grew up, and all the fairies’ gifts to the child were
 plain to see: she was good, wise, kind, and beautiful. Everyone
 who saw her loved her. 
On the day that she turned ffteen, the king and queen were
 away from the palace. The princess was left on her own, and she
 wandered about the palace, looking into all sorts of places, and
 peeking into rooms that she had never explored before. She
 climbed a narrow winding stair that led to a little door with a
 rusty key sticking out of the lock. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 13
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 14
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
She turned the key, and the door opened, and there in a little
 room sat an old woman with a spinning wheel, busily spinning
 away. 
“Good day,” said the princess, entering the room. “What are you
 doing?” she asked, for she had never seen a spinning wheel
 before. 1
 “I am spinning,” said the old woman. 
The princess stretched forth her hand and asked, “What is this
 thing that spins around so merrily?” But hardly had she spoken
 when she pricked her fnger on the spinning wheel’s spindle, and
 in that very moment she fell into a deep sleep. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 15
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Page 16
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
At the same time, sleep fell upon everyone in the palace. 
The king and queen, who had just come home and were in the
 great hall, fell fast asleep. 
The horses in their stalls, the dogs in the yard,  the pigeons on
 the roof, and the fies on the wall—all fell asleep. 
Even the re on the hearth* went out, the wind stopped, and not a
 leaf fell from the trees. 
* A hearth is the bottom of replace, where the wood is put. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 17
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 18
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
In time, a hedge of thorns began to grow around the castle,
 which grew thicker and higher every year, until at last nothing
 could be seen of the castle, not even the fags on the highest
 towers. 
As the years passed, stories spread throughout the land of a
 beautiful princess sleeping behind a wall of thorns. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 19
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Page 20
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Many a young prince came, but none could break through the
 thorns. But at long last, after many, many years, there came into
 the country a king’s son who heard an old man tell that there
 was a castle standing behind the hedge of thorns, and that there
 a beautiful enchanted princess lay sleeping. 
The prince said, “I shall make my way through and see the lovely
 princess.” The old man warned him that many had tried and
 failed, but the prince would not listen. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 21
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Page 22
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
For now the hundred years were at an end, and the day had
 come for the sleeping princess to be awakened. When the prince
 drew near the hedge of thorns, it changed into a hedge of
 beautiful fowers, which bent aside to let him pass. 
When he reached the castle yard, he saw the horses and dogs
 lying asleep, and on the roof the pigeons were sitting with their
 heads under their wings. As he entered the castle and climbed
 the steps, the prince saw everyone still asleep—the king, the
 queen, the cook, the maids, everyone. All was so quiet that he
 could hear his own breathing. 
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 23
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
At last the prince went up the narrow winding stair and came to
 the room where the princess was sleeping. When he saw her
 looking so lovely in her sleep, he could not turn his eyes away.
 He bent down and kissed her, and she opened her eyes and
 smiled at him. 
Together they went down the stairs, and they saw the king and
 queen waking up, and all the people in the castle waking up and
 looking at each other in great surprise. The horses in the yard
 got up and shook themselves. The dogs sprang up and wagged
 their tails. The pigeons on the roof few into the felds. The fies
 on the wall buzzed and crept a little farther. Even the kitchen re
 leapt up and blazed. 
At last the wedding of the prince and princess was held with
 great feasting and rejoicing, and they lived happily together for
 the rest of their days. -THE END
Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
 Page 24
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
Reading Comprehension Questions
 1.
 2.
 3.
 4.
 5.
 6.
 7.
 8.
 9.
 At the beginning of the fairy tale, why do the king and queen have a feast?
 What is a feast?
 Who is invited to the feast? 
How many fairies are there? 
How many fairies are invited to the feast?
 How do you think the thirteenth fairy will feel about not being invited to the feast? 
What are some of the gifts given to the child by the fairies? 
What does virtue mean?
 What does wisdom mean?
 10. Do you think the king makes a good decision not to invite the thirteenth fairy? 
11. Why is the thirteenth fairy angry? And what does she do? 
Page 25
 Sleeping Beauty – Common Core® Foundation
Free ebook from https://www.freekidsbooks.org 
12. How does the twelfth fairy, who had not yet given her gift, and then the king try to solve, 
or fix, the problem of the evil spell? 
13. What happens on the princess’s fifteenth birthday when she finds a spindle? 
14. Why do you think there is still a spindle in the castle after the king said that all of them 
should be burned? 
15. How does this fairy tale end? 
16. Is it a happy ending? 
17. Why do you think this fairy tale is called “Sleeping Beauty”? 
18. Have you ever known someone who has shown great wisdom? Tdescribe the person using 
the term wisdom, for example: “My grandfather has wisdom about . . . ”] 
19. Use a Drawing activity for follow-up. Directions: Draw an individual who you think 
has/shows great wisdom. Explain why you chose them. Remember to answer in complete 
sentences and use the word wisdom when you answer. 
20. Describe the following aspects of the fairytale: